.TH REPOCTX 1 "March 2026" "repoctx-mcp 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
repoctx \- local repository intelligence for coding agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B repoctx
[\fB\-h\fR]
.br
.B repoctx
\fItask\fR
.br
.B repoctx
query \fItask\fR [\fB\-\-repo\fR \fIPATH\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR \fBmarkdown\fR|\fBjson\fR]
.br
.B repoctx
experiment [\fB\-\-repo\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.br
.B repoctx
\fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B repoctx
retrieves focused repository context for a coding task and can also manage local
embedding indexes and controlled experiments.
.PP
If the first non-option argument is not a known subcommand,
.B repoctx
treats it as a query task.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B query
Retrieve context for a task. This is the default command.
.TP
.B index
Build the embedding index for a repository.
.TP
.B update
Re-embed a single file in the index.
.TP
.B rebuild
Delete and rebuild the embedding index.
.TP
.B experiment
Launch or resume a guided control versus treatment experiment with paired worktrees.
During the control lane, RepoCtx may stub MCP
.B get_task_context
responses until the treatment lane; timing is configured in
.I ~/.repoctx/config.json
(for example
.IR experiment_mcp_suppress ", " experiment_mcp_idle_ttl_seconds ", and " experiment_mcp_extend_seconds "; see the README).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h\fR, \fB\-\-help
Show top-level help or command-specific help with
.B repoctx COMMAND \-\-help .
.PP
When you need query-specific flags such as
.B \-\-repo
or
.B \-\-format ,
use the explicit
.B repoctx query
form.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Retrieve context for a task:
.IP
.EX
repoctx "refactor the auth middleware to support OAuth"
.EE
.TP
Request JSON output for an explicit repository:
.IP
.EX
repoctx query "show me tests related to the billing webhook flow" --repo /path/to/repo --format json
.EE
.TP
Build embeddings for a repository:
.IP
.EX
repoctx index --repo /path/to/repo
.EE
.TP
Launch the guided experiment wizard:
.IP
.EX
repoctx experiment
.EE
.TP
Start a controlled experiment session with a prewritten prompt:
.IP
.EX
repoctx experiment "refactor the auth middleware to support OAuth"
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.repoctx/config.json
Optional RepoCtx user settings (for example experiment MCP suppression timing).
.TP
.I .repoctx/embeddings/
Default repository-local embedding index directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR python (1)
